CGChat 1.6 - a platform independent 64CHAT client
-------------------------------------------------

As the title says, CGChat is an open source, platform independent
client for 64CHAT. It's supposed to compile and run on any POSIX
compliant OS with the SDL library installed.


Installation (UNIX)
-------------------

First, download and install the SDL library if it's not included with
your OS:

  http://www.libsdl.org/download-1.2.php

Edit the supplied Makefile as needed, then run make, and make install.


Usage
-----

  cgchat [-4|-8] [-f] [-k keyboard.kbd] [-s] [-z zoom] [host [port]]

CGChat looks for options in the following order: first it uses
anything specified on the command line, then it tries to read options
from a file called .cgchatrc in your home directory, and if that fails
it tries to read from the system configuration file. The available
options are:

	Config Key    Switch	Action

	fullscreen	-f	Fullscreen mode
	keyboard	-k	Select keyboard configuration file
				(default: keyboard.kbd)
	zoom		-z	Window zoom factor (default: 2)
	reconnect	-r	Reconnect if disconnected within N
				seconds (default: 0 = off)
	host	      1st arg	Host to connect to
	port	      2nd arg	Port to connect to (default: 23)
	sound		-s	Enable sound playback (default: yes)
	columns	       -4/-8	40 or 80 columns (default: 40)
	bookmark		Add a host to the bookmark menu. Use
				the format alias, host, port.


Hotkeys
-------

Certain program functions can be activated with hotkeys. These are
bound to the Meta key (a.k.a. Command key) plus another key. You can
also bring up a menu with Escape.

       Key	Action

	A	Abort loading or macro playback
	B	Open bookmarks
	C	Start/stop recording macro
	D	Connect/disconnect
	F	Toggle fullscreen mode
	L	Load SEQ file
	Q	Quit CGChat
	R	Reconnect to last host
	S	Save screenshot to SEQ file
	V	Play recorded macro
       Alt	Toggle lower/upper case font

The scrollback buffer can be accessed with the Page Up and Page Down
keys.


Keyboards
---------

See the CGTerm documentation.


Contact
-------

You can email me at MagerValp@cling.gu.se.


License
-------

CGChat is released under a slightly modified BSD license:

Copyright (c) 2003, Per Olofsson
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
